- [Instructor] Before diving into the techniques
and technologies used to deliver Java applications,
let's discuss the big picture
of what we're trying to achieve
by practicing continuous delivery.
Continuous delivery is a bit of a mindset shift
from what you might've learned
about delivering software early in your career.
In my college coursework,
I was taught the five sequential phases
of the software development lifecycle.
The first three phases focused on building
the entire product
and then the final two phases would test
and deploy everything that was built.
This approach worked in the past,
but in today's fast-paced environment,
it has some drawbacks.
First, towards the end of the development phase,
all the code was merged together
in one big integration effort.
This could take weeks or months
until you actually had a working piece of software.
Second, most of the feedback on the product
came later in the process during the testing phase
where it takes longer and costs more
to fix an issue with the code.
Continuous delivery challenges this idea
that software should be developed, tested
and delivered sequentially in large chunks.
It introduces a set of practices that teams use
to evolve their software gradually
through the frequent delivery of small incremental changes.
That means you'll be performing releases more often,
which can sound a bit scary,
but automation can help you safely repeat the practice.
All of these changes are routinely delivered using
an automated pipeline that builds, tests and deploys
each new version of the software.
That part about testing is important
because it validates every change we make to the software.
This helps ensure that the pipeline
only delivers working software that's ready for release.
When teams follow these practices,
it changes their delivery cadence.
Here, you see a typical quarterly cadence,
which has some drawbacks.
The cycle time is extended,
so we're tempted to cram a bunch of changes
into the iteration and release them all at once.
This increases the probability
that something will go wrong at deployment time.
Also, the feedback that we receive about the software
from acceptance testers and users is limited
because the changes only become visible towards
the end of the cycle right before we release everything.
With continuous delivery,
teams fall into a cadence where releasing software changes
becomes a frequent part of their routine.
It's not this big event that everybody gets stressed over.
Each change can be released independently
or as part of a small batch.
This helps reduce the potential for things to go wrong
when we deploy the software.
The shorter cycle times
and introduction of automation creates tremendous benefits
for teams and businesses.
It increases the speed at which we deliver software
and allows new features to come to market faster.
It also improves quality because automated testing
and increased visibility of the software
creates feedback loops that provide information
we can use to improve the product constantly.
By automating deployment procedures
and exercising them more frequently,
teams become comfortable performing releases.
This helps increase the overall stability of the system.
When applied carefully, continuous delivery
is an approach for delivering software
that will help your team more quickly
and safely provide value to your business.
Adopting the approach starts with shifting your mindset.
So in our next lesson,
we'll explore the underlying principles
of continuous delivery.